---
layout: default
title: Compiler Options
---

## fastInit mode

You can choose to generate your Dagger [`@Component`]s in a mode that
prioritizes fast initialization. Normally, the number of classes loaded when
initializing a component (i.e., when calling `DaggerFooComponent.create()` or
`DaggerFooComponent.builder()...build()`) scales with the number of bindings in
the component. In "fastInit" mode, it doesn’t. There are tradeoffs, however.
Normally, each [`Provider`] you inject holds a reference to providers
of all its transitive dependencies; in fastInit mode, each
[`Provider`] holds a reference to the entire component, including all
scoped instances.

You should evaluate this tradeoff for your application when choosing to build in
fastInit mode. Take care to measure your application’s startup time with and
without fastInit mode to see how much benefit it has for your users. (Please let
us know whether it’s working for you!) In general, for environments like Android
where Dagger initialization is often on the user’s critical path and where class
loading is expensive, consider using fastInit mode.

To enable fastInit mode, pass the following option to javac when building your
Dagger [`@Component`]: `-Adagger.fastInit=enabled`.

## Turning off code formatting

By default, Dagger formats all of the code it generates with
[google-java-format](https://github.com/google/google-java-format). This makes
the generated code readable, which is useful for debugging in an IDE or having
useful line numbers in stack traces. Formatting may however incur a noticeable
cost at compilation time, so Dagger provides a flag to disable this behavior:
`-Adagger.formatGeneratedSource=disabled`.

It is strongly recommended to disable formatting only during development, not in
production code or continuous integration tests. Otherwise stack traces may not
be easy to interpret, since the unformatted source may not be as readable.

> Note: Benchmarking of a 143k line file generated by Dagger (one of the largest
at Google!) took between 2.6 and 3 seconds. As with all optimizations, verify
the effects on your machine/environment.

## Gradle incremental compilation

Dagger has conditional support for Gradle's incremental annotation processing.
To enable this in your build, pass `-Adagger.gradle.incremental` as an option to
`javac`. Please help us validate (and file bugs if you see weirdness!) so that
we can enable this broadly.



<!-- References -->

[`@Component`]: https://google.github.io/dagger/api/latest/dagger/Component.html
[`Provider`]: http://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/api/javax/inject/Provider.html
